in this section will focus on some of the advanced techniques and structures that you'll
encounter when working with look up in reference functions.
I will begin by looking at the nest in of the V look up function.
So we now in 05 look up in reference and it's open up 01 In this example.
We want to find one missing piece of information before we can carry out our analysis.
And that's the branch that each of our account handlers works.
However,
to make things a little tricky,
the only information we have to start with is an invoice number on.
Therefore,
we need to go through a chain before we can find the information we're actually looking for
.
So starting with our invoice number,
we can go across to the invoices,
work feet and find out the client i d.
Once we've got a client,
I d.
We can go to clients and find the account handler who services that clients account.
Once we have an account handler,
we can go to the account handlers,
work fees and find the bronze I d.
That that account handler works.
And then finally,
once we've got a branch i d.
We can use that in the branches,
Work feet to find the name of the branch.
So we'll need four B look up functions on this diagram shows the manner in which we need to
nest them.
The innermost look up will be the one that we're starting with the invoice number.
We used the invoice number to find the client I d.
And then that client I d becomes the look up value off our second we look up,
which is wrapped around the first.
When we use that client,
I'd be to find the account handler.
I d that account handler.
I d in turn becomes the input of our third look up,
which is wrapped around the 1st 2 And with this look up,
we're using the account handle.
I'd be to pull back the bronze I d.
And then all our final will be Look up,
Which will be the outermost one.
We used the branch I d to retrieve the Brahms name.
Let's go ahead and write out function in F two,
but expand formula bar.
So we start with the outermost be look up equals we look up all tender because we're now
gonna nest inside it.
Another V.
Look up.
Well,
Ken,
time on the same for the third on one more.
So this is our innermost look up and we start by looking for the invoice number.
So look at value on his innermost.
To be look up is going to be be to the invoice number coma.
Then our table array will be in invoices.
We need to go from column A to see three columns calmer.
And the answer we want to pull back is in the third of those three columns.
So a column index number is three comma,
and then we're looking for an exact match so we can either put false or zero.
So this innermost the look up now becomes but look up,
value argument of our second.
We look up so we can put a comma old enter and then to save space,
I'll put the remaining three arguments along one line.
So the table array for our second we look up will be in clients,
and again it spans from a to see three columns coma.
And the answer we're looking for is again in the third column and common zero for an exact
match.
Walt enter and then let's put the clothes in parenthesis aligned with the opening
parenthesis.
Then this second we look up in terms becomes the look of value,
the first parameter of our Thirdly,
look up.
So we put a comma to end that argument.
Old enter men will just align the remaining arguments underneath the first argument,
which was to be look up.
So table array argument is now going to be an account handless,
and this time our table array stretches from a right across the e,
which is where we have the branch i d.
So five columns comma on The answer we're looking for is in the fifth column Comma and zero
for an exact match.
We'll enter and then we allowing the clothes in parenthesis with the opening one on this,
our third we look up now becomes the look at value argument for our final outermost Be look
up So comma and the argument old enter and then that sidelined.
The remaining arguments with the first,
which was the third we look up table array this time is going to be in branches and it
spends just the 1st 2 columns,
coma.
And,
of course,
the second of those two columns has the branch that we're looking for and common zero toe
end cancer.
In the final closing,
parenthesis aligns with the opening one off our outermost look up on That's it.
Let's Angela formula collapse the formula bar and copy down the formula by double clicking
on the also feel handle.
So that's the technique,
or nest in B look ups.
It's a fairly common requirement where you want to look something up,
but there's no direct route to the information that you're trying to retrieve.
So in this scenario,
we're probably now copy out data and then paste values rather than leaving the data
volatile,
constantly recalculated so they have it nested the lookups.